     
     Chapter 05 Worksheet

     
     Reminder: Please use full sentences, capital letters, and proper grammar
     where appropriate.
     
  1. Explain how the computer coordinate system differs from the standard Cartesian
     coordinate system. There are two main differences. List both.
The computer coordinate system is different from the standard Cartesian coordinate system in the sense that the y coordinats are reversed in the Catesian system, and the computer coordinate system focuses on the bottom right quadrant, while Catesian focuses on top right quadrant.
  2. Before a Python Pygame program can use any functions
     like pygame.display.set_mode(), what two lines of code must occur first?
import pygame and pygame.init()
  3. Explain how WHITE = (255, 255, 255) represents a color.
This represents a color because it tells the computer to put as much color as possible on display, creating white as the three colors (RGB) are combined. The numbers are what specify how much of what color is going to be put in.
  4. When do we use variable names for colors in all upper-case, and when do we
     use variable names for colors in all lower-case? (This applies to all variables,
     not just colors.)
We make them all uppercase because colors are constants, and we do not expect them to change in any way. 
  5. What does the pygame.display.set_mode() function do?
The pygame.dsiplay.set_mode() function removes everything off of the screen, and gives the game control of the screen. It also helps to place a pre-determined size of the screen.
  6. What does this for event in pygame.event.get() loop do?
This loop helps process all the keystroke, mouse button clicks, or any other type of event.
  7. What is pygame.time.Clock used for?
 pygame.time.Clock is used to manage how fast a screen updates.
  8. For this line of code: (3 pts)
     
     pygame.draw.line(screen, GREEN, [0, 0], [100, 100], 5)
     
     * What does screen do?
     * What does [0, 0] do?
     * What does [100, 100] do?
     * What does 5 do?
     he screen is where the green line is being drawn on. The [0, 0] is where the line starts, and [100, 100] is where it ends. The 5 represents how many pixels wide the line is meant to be. 

  9. What is the best way to repeat something over and over in a drawing?
The best way to repeat a drawing is a 'for' or 'while' loop, but you also must use 'y_offset'
 10. When drawing a rectangle, what happens if the specified line width is zero?
 The rectangle then will not have a border around it and will be instead filled with the specified color.
 11. Describe the ellipse drawn in the code below.
     * What is the x, y of the origin coordinate?
     * What does the origin coordinate specify? The center of the circle?
     * What is the length and the width of the ellipse?
     
     
     pygame.draw.ellipse(screen, BLACK, [20, 20, 250, 100], 2)
     The origin coordinate for x is [20, 20] and the origin coordinate for y is [250, 100]. The origin coordinate specifies where in the upper left of the rectangle the ellipse. The length of the ellipse is 100, and the width is 100 pixels.
 12. When drawing an arc, what additional information is needed over drawing
     an ellipse?
The two things that are added in the information needed for an arc is the starting and ending angles for the arc
 13. Describe, in general, what are the three steps needed when printing text to
     the screen using graphics?
The 3 steps are the pygame.font.SysFont(), font.render() and screen.blit() functions.
 14. When drawing text, the first line of the three lines needed to draw text
     should actually be outside the main program loop. It should only run once at
     the start of the program. Why is this? You may need to ask.
     This line only needs to run once because the font type and sizing is accepted as a constant, and not expected to change, so there is no point in running it multiple times.
 15. What are the coordinates of the polygon that the code below draws?
     
     pygame.draw.polygon(screen, BLACK, [[50,100],[0,200],[200,200],[100,50]], 5)
     This line only needs to run once because the font type and sizing is accepted as a constant, and not expected to change, so there is no point in running it multiple times.
 16. What does pygame.display.flip() do?
it flips the programs display screen
 17. What does pygame.quit() do?
It quits the program or ends it
 18. Look up on-line how the pygame.draw.circle works. Get it working
     and paste a working sample here. I only need the one line of code that draws the
     circle, but make sure it is working by trying it out in a full working program.
     
